# EN-05 recommendation implementation

Throughout this document, “previous” refers to Git rev. `0cd8145d`.

From the audit report:

> We recommend to:
>
> - Fuse the constructor of the `DoubleDiceTokenVesting` contract and the `DoubleDiceTokenVesting.addTokenGrant()` method.
> - Make the `DoubleDiceTokenVesting.removeTokenGrant()` method `selfdestruct` the contract.

## Step 1 (`05f89a2`): Minimal EN-05 implementation

The previous `DoubleDiceTokenVesting` `constructor()` + `DoubleDiceTokenVesting.addTokenGrant()` are fused into the `constructor` in a minimal number of changes. Some notes:

- Due to this change, the account funding the grant must `approve` the to-be-deployed `DoubleDiceTokenVesting` to `transferFrom` the `_amount` from its balance *prior* to the contract being deployed. Despite it being [possible](https://docs.ethers.io/v5/api/utils/address/#utils-getContractAddress) to (1) precalculate the address at which a contract will be `CREATE`d and (2) pre-approve an ERC-20 spending allowance to a contract before the contract exists, it is nevertheless a convoluted process.
- As part of this change, the `_dodiOwner` and `owner()` have been merged into one, as explained in the next section.

### Contract ownership

Previously, besides the `_userAddress` itself, that could access the `onlyUser`-protected functions, the contract had “2 owners”:

1. The account deploying the `DoubleDiceTokenVesting` contract who automatically became the `Ownable.owner()` of that contract, and subsequently had the right to (1) `addTokenGrant` and (2) `removeTokenGrant` (and (3) transfer `owner()`-ship to a different account)
2. `_dodiOwner` who sourced the funds for the grant during `addTokenGrant`, and who later received the `amountNotVested` back in the eventuality that `owner()` decided to `removeTokenGrant`.

Now these “2 owners” have been fused into 1: `owner()`. For a particular token-vesting, the account that deploys the `DoubleDiceTokenVesting` contract must source the funds, and automatically becomes the `owner()`. Subsequently the `owner()` may choose to `transferOwnership` to another account. At any moment, the `owner()` at that moment may call `removeTokenGrant` and have the `amountNotVested` transferred back to itself. This change makes it simpler to reason about ownership, both in the context of EN-05 and in general.

## Step 2 (`96a7d17`): Simpler (and cheaper) deployment process

An effective way to avoid precalculating the contract address to which to approve tokens, would be to deploy a separate contract that would serve as a `DoubleDiceTokenVesting` factory. The factory would encapsulate the address-precalculation + token-approval + deployment logic into a single function which could be then called easily by the token-holder to create a new vesting-contract in a single blockchain transaction.

However there is a solution that can achieve this effect in a simpler way, while at the same time lowering significantly the per-vesting-contract deployment gas cost — Once `addTokenGrant` had been collapsed into the constructor in [Step 1](#step-1), it was relatively simple to make a few further changes to convert  `DoubleDiceTokenVesting` into a proxiable contract, i.e. a contract that can be deployed to the blockchain *once* as a “stateless library” and be forwarded calls from (much smaller) [EIP-1167 Minimal Proxy Contracts](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-1167) that are deployed per vesting-contract grant.

Once this change was done, a `DoubleDiceTokenVestingProxyFactory` was developed that combines token-approval and proxy-deployment into a single step — the function `createDoubleDiceTokenVestingProxy`. Calling this function is ~80% cheaper than deploying `DoubleDiceTokenVesting`.

Some extra benefits of having this factory contract are:

- In theory everyone is free to deploy a proxy in front of the `DoubleDiceTokenVesting` singleton, fund it with it’s DODI tokens, and become that contract’s owner (much like it was possible for anyone to deploy and fund with their own DODI tokens a new `DoubleDiceTokenVesting` copy prior to implementing Step 2). But by deploying via `DoubleDiceTokenVestingProxyFactory.createDoubleDiceTokenVestingProxy`, as this function is protected by `onlyOwner`, this imparts a sense of “officiality” to the proxies that are deployed by this function.
- Prior to Step 2, it was necessary to `approve` the grant amount for every newly-deployed `DoubleDiceTokenVesting` contract. Instead now it is possible (but not necessary) for the `_dodiOwner` to `approve` a large spending allowance to the factory that will last for many (or possibly all) `createDoubleDiceTokenVestingProxy` deployments.

### Self-destruction

In EN-05 it had been recommended to make the `DoubleDiceTokenVesting.removeTokenGrant()` method
`selfdestruct` the contract. This `selfdestruct` had been introduced in `removeTokenGrant` in a previous revision.

However since `DoubleDiceTokenVesting` is now a stateless singleton contract being forwarded calls from proxy contracts, this needs to be reevaluated for potential vulnerabilities. If the `DoubleDiceTokenVesting` singleton were to be `selfdestruct`-ed in some way or another, this would result in a fatal [Parity Multi-Sig Library Self-Destruct](https://www.parity.io/blog/a-postmortem-on-the-parity-multi-sig-library-self-destruct/)-like scenario where proxies suddenly start delegating calls to an inexistent contract.

Technically it would not be possible to call `removeTokenGrant` directly on the singleton, resulting in `selfdestruct` of the singleton, because `removeTokenGrant` is protected by `onlyOwner`, and the on-chain storage space of the singleton `DoubleDiceTokenVesting` is never written to, so the `owner()` of the singleton contract would be `0x0000000000000000000000000000000000000000`. If somebody were to discover the private key to this special 0-address, they would have more interesting things to do than self-destruct the `DoubleDiceTokenVesting` singleton.

Nevertheless, to steer clear of any potential attacks and need for further analysis, the `selfdestruct` code has been retired.
